# chlorophyll-effect-on-phytoplankton

This research project was completed by myself and four other UNSW students studying data science throughout the term as part of the UNSW course DATA3001: Data Science and Decisions. The data that we have received are available to the general public as part of the UNSW Oceanography Lab. However, this data was too big to upload. Please contact Jinhao Huang at jinhaohuang99@gmail.com if you wish to obtain the data.

The measurement of chlorophyll-a in bodies of water has been a topic of interest in the research world for many years. Chlorophyll-a concentrations have long been an indicator of phytoplankton abundance and biological growth in water. These numbers are the base of the biological food chain in the ocean and are of great interest to oceanographers, fisheries, biologists amongst others. This study analyses data collected by ocean gliders to determine the relationship between ocean properties and chlorophyll-a. The goal is to increase the amount of knowledge regarding predictive indicators of chlorophyll-a in Australian waters and how we could apply this to continually regulate the ocean whilst also determining biological growth.

Summary Results: While the GLM and RF Model addresses the predictive requirements for the research question, there are models better suited for this study such as time-series models, of which the Wavelet Artificial Neural Network (WANN) model performed the best in terms of the standard criterion for prediction. Given more time and experience with neural networks, a WANN model for this report would be ideal and can be a point of further analysis in the future.
